Weapons and what they do:

Assault Cannon
A big, bad, multibarreled machinegun. Mostly used on vehicles.

Autocannon
Small rapid fire cannon, or large slow firing machinegun. Best used against light vehicles and heavy armoured troopers.

Barbed Strangler
Bio-organic weapon, when hitting an organic target it quickly grows an alien vegetation which tears and rips it appart.

Bio Plasma
Larger Tyranid creatures are able to create plasma, whcih they can use to engulf their enemies.

Bolt Gun
Rocket propelled caseless bullets. Standard issue gun of the Space Marines, the elite soldiers defending humanity.

Bombardment
Most armies have some kind of long range artillery, which can be called upon to rain doom upon targets.

Bright Lance
Main Eldar anti-armour weapon. Fires a bright laser bolt.

Burst Cannon
A very rapid firing machine gun.

Combat Drugs
A cocktail of various drugs, enhances the reactions, senses and strength of the user. Overuse might result in a bio-meltdown, which is fatal.

Combat Shotgun
This shotgun fires metal fragments. The fragments are heavy enough to knock infantry of it's legs.

Conversion Beamer
So heavy it can't be fired on the move. Fires an enormous beam of pure energy, annihilating everything in it's path. Best used to kill well dug in defenders, only 2 shots per life.

C'tan Phase Blade
Not much is know about the C'tan, but they made very strong weapons. This weapon is commonly used by the Callidus Assassins, the stealthy fighting force of the Ordo Malleus.

Daemonic Aura
When daemons are released upon the battlefield, they often use Auras of pure warp energy to protect themselves from physical harm.

Dark Lance
The Dark Eldar version of the Bright Lance. Fires a dark laser beam which easily pierces the thickest armour.

D-Cannon
This Eldar weapon creates a tear in space, leading to the Warp. Extremely powerfull weapon, although not to accurate.

Deathspinner
A mesh of monofilament wires is created out of a spinning nozzle, and then accelerated toward the target. It enmeshes the target and slices as it tries to break free

Deathspitter
Spits a living shell, which detonates on impact, spreading gobbets of poisonous flesh and acid.

Demolition Charge
Only used by the bravest (or most suicidal) soldiers use Demolition Charges. They consist of a pack of explosives with a short timer.

Deth Wave
Weirdboys can use the psychic power generated by nearby Orks to fire of huge waves of psychic energy. The waves are called Deth Waves by the Orks, and can easily kill infantry.

Earthshaker
The Imperial Guard is famous for it's artillery. Most common is the Basilisk, which mounts a long ranged Earthshaker cannon.

Eldritch Storm
Not a weapon, but more a psychic power. Farseers channel the energy of the warp to create a roaring maelstrom of wind.

Exterminatus
When a planet is infested beyond help, the Exterminatus may be ordered. The planet is bombarded from space, killing everything on the surface.

Flamer
Emits a stream of burning fluid.

Fleshborer
A bio-organic weapon, fires small buglike creatures. When hitting, they claw and bite at the target.

Frag Grenade
When detonating, it launches tiny fragments of metal in all directions. Best used on unarmoured units.

Foot of Gork
Weirdboyz often use the power of the Waaaaaggggh to create an ectoplasmatic representation of Gork's foot, stomping their enemies into the dirt.

Gauss Rifle
This gruesome weapon is used by the ancient Necrons. It strips layers of the target away, flaying people alive.

Glue Gun
Spits a blob of glue, which quickly expands on impact, entangling it's victims.

Grenade Launcher
Fires frag grenades, which detonate on impact.

Haemonculus Flamer
Emits streams of corroding, flaming and choking fluids or gasses. Designed to torture, not to kill.

Hallucinogen Grenade
Upon explosion this grenade releases clouds of hallucinogenic gas. It can cause all kinds of hallucinations, but most grenades cause fear inspiring effects.

Hand Flamer
Smaller version of the flamer.

Harlequin's Kiss
Strapped to the forearm, this weapon fires a monomolecular wire, which can turn a men into a pile of flesh in seconds.

Heavy Bolter
A larger version of the bolter. It fires heavier shells at a faster rate. It can fire special Hellfire shells, ceramic shells filled with a deadly poison. These shells have to be loaded manually and can't be used to rapid-fire, and have limited ammo.

Heavy Flamer
A larger version of the flamer.

Heavy Plasma Gun
A larger version of the plasma gun, firing slower but far more powerfull shots.

Hellfire
The Psyker channels the energy of the warp to create a mighty pillar of fire, burning foes alive.

Incinerator
Modified flamer which sends out jets of burning sacred oils, making it very effective against psykers and daemons.

Ion Cannon
Heavy ion shooter.

Krak Grenade
This grenade is used to crack open armoured troups and vehicles. High strength in a concentrated blast.

Lance Strike
Troops can often call upon supporting fire from ships in orbit. They often use their lances for that task as the high powered lasers are very accurate, even at long ranges.

Lascannon
A larger version of the lasgun, fires one powerfull blast instead of a hail of smaller shots. Only 9 shots per power cell

Lasgun
The standard weapon of the Imperial Guard, this laser based weapon fires quick laser blasts.

Kustom Mega Blasta
Orks always want heavier weapons, and are always heavy if a Mekanik tinkers with their weaponry. The richest (the largest) can afford the heaviest custom made weapons, often several weapons welded together.

Melta Bomb
Used to crack open heavily armed vehicles, this grenade fires a blast of thermal energy when triggered.

Meltagun
Short range microwave weapon. The powerfull blast weakens at longer ranges.

Missile Launcher (antiplant, frag, krak, melta, plasma)
Fires a missile, loaded with a warhead. Several warheads can be chosen:
Antiplant   Toxics in this warhead quickly kill all plants.
Frag        Fragmentation similar to that used in frag grenades.
Krak        Primarily designed to crack open armoured vehicles.
Melta       Releases a blast of intense energy upon impact.
Plasma      Generates plasma during flight and releases when triggered.
Mole Mortar
A burrowing underground missile. Best used to attack well dug in defenders.

Mortar
A mortar, fires an arcing projectile.

Multimelta
This heavier version of the meltagun is constructed by adding more barrels. Somewhat longer range and larger area of effect.

Needle Sniper Rifle
When fired, this weapon launches a small toxic needle and fires some small laser pulses. The laser guides the needle and punctures armour, allowing the needle to hit the exposed flesh.

Plasma Charge
Primarily used to crack open heavy vehicles, but also very effective versus infantry.

Plasma Gun
Highly unstable and quite rare, this weapon fires plasma encased in magnetic fields.

Psy-Bolter
Daemonhunters often use psychically inscribed bolts for their boltguns, making them exceptionally strong against Daemons.

Pulse Rifle
A long ranged rifle, firing deadly plasma pulses.

Pulse Carbine
Smaller version of the Pulse Rifle with underslung grenade launcher.

Rad Grenade
This grenade emits radiation when triggered. It contaminates an area for a longer time.

Railgun
Using electrical forces, this weapon accelerates a metal slug to relativistic velocity. Only 3 slugs per clip.

Railrifle
Smaller version of the large railgun. Less powerfull, but easier to handle.

Reaper Launcher
Rapid firing missile launcher, used by the Dark Reaper Aspect.

Rokkit Launcah
Orky version of the missile launcher. The rocket runs out of fuel quickly, but is devastating.

Scarabs
Necrons employ these small robots to destroy armoured vehicles. They chip of chunks of armour untill nothing remains.

Scatter Laser
Using the same laser technology as found in imperial las weapons, this weapon fires more powerfull blasts at a higher rate. It is quite erratic, though.

Shoota
Orks call everything that fires shots and isn't a slugga (pistol) a shoota or blasta. Fire sollid shells, and have a high recoil.

Shredder
Typical Dark Eldar engineering, this weapon hurts the victim as much as it kills. It fires 3 balls, connected with ensnaring wire.

Shredder Mine
Primary used for urban combat, this mine fires a leathal burst of shrapnel when trigered.

Shuriken Cannon
Larger version of the Shuriken Catapult

Shuriken Catapult
Standard weapon of the Eldar. It accelerates tiny shuriken discs, with razor sharp edges. It's high rate of fire makes up for it's inaccuracy.

Shadow Weaver
Fires a stream of monomolecular mesh into the sky, which then drifts down onto the target. The mesh tears and cuts at the exposed flesh as the victim struggles to break free. More powerfull at long range, as the mesh hardens and expands.

Smite
The psyker channels his powers and litteraly smites his opponents with righteous power.

Sonic Blaster
Used by the Chaos Noise Marines, this weapon uses resonating sound waves to destroy anyone who stands in their way.

Splinter Cannon
Heavier version of the Splinter Rifle, with longer barrel and stronger gravitational generator.

Splinter Rifle
The Dark Eldar version of the shuriken rifle, this weapons fires several shards of crystallic material at once using gravitational pulses.

Spore Chimney
When the Tyranids take over a world, they create organic structures on the surface. The Spore Chimney launches deadly spores which kill living creatures, but that can be stopped by destroying the Chimney. Antiplant is very effective against them.

Spore Mine
Launches a semi-intelligent creature. It's mission: float towards the enemy and explode on contact. Several types exist:
Acid	A strong acid corrodes it's victim
Frag	Explodes into small fragments, damaging those nearby
Poison	Releases a toxic cloud, choking all bystanders

Starcannon
Fires strong plasma blasts at a very high rate. Very effective against heavy infantry.

Stasis Grenade
This grenade creates a loop in time, stopping those standing near it. Victims cannot manipulate the world for a short time, but they also can't be hurt.

Stinger
Typical Dark Eldar weapon, fires small needles which tear at exposed flesh. High rate of fire, but not very accurate.

Storm Bolter
Basicaly two boltguns attached to each other, this clumsy weapon is highly effective in the servo-assisted hands of the terminators.

Summon Daemon
The psyker creates a portal to the Warp, allowing daemons to appear in real space.

Swooping Hawk Wings
The Swooping Hawk aspect uses these wing to soar high, while dropping grenades from leg mounted launchers.

Tanglefoot Grenade
Uses a magno-gravitic reactor to create a field which impedes movement.

Thudd Gun
Named after it's firing sound, this multibarreled cannon fires four explosive shells in an arcing trajectory.

Unholy Ritual
Chaos worshippers often sacrifice humans to please their masters, the Dark Gods of Chaos. They are rewarded greatly, but the gods might also take their souls..

Vibro Cannon
Resonating sound waves are used to shake the target apart. Because of the nature of sound waves, this weapon can be used to destroy well dug in defenders.

Virus Grenade
This grenade releases a cloud of deadly virus. It can survive a long time in a dormant state, waiting for a victim to come by.

Vortex Grenade
Using ancient technology, this grenade creates a tear in space and time which sucks all material and energy into the Warp, instantly destroying it. It is a rare weapon, and there are not many grenades available.

Whirling Death
A spiked boomerang used by the Phoenix Lord Jain Zar.

ZZap Gun
This gun works in the real Orky way: It fires a very unpredictable electric shock, but when it works, it works good!