Liero Xtreme Source Release Frequently Asked Questions

By Jason Boettcher
------------------------------------------------------



Q. I want to make my own version of this worms game. Where do i start?

A. 
   1) Find a new name. You're going to have to change the title graphics and the text on the main menu
   2) Look at the LX site & forums. Chances are some people have started a list of things that need to be fixed
      and/or improved
   3) Check out other questions in this FAQ




Q. How do i make it less laggy?

A. The biggest cause of lag is the client sending the update info to the server every frame!
   This floods the upload stream (which is typically slower than download) and causes the client's connection to
   slow right down.

   The best way to fix this is only send this update a certain amount of times per second rather then every frame.
   Around 8 to 32 updates sent per second is a good number. Just allow this to be adjusted by the player to suit their
   connection. Eg, 8 for dialup, 32 for LAN and everything else between.



Q. This code is ugly as hell!

A. Mostly. This project is nearly 4 years old, so it features my coding style from four years ago and contains changes
   of my style during the project. So come code is ugly, some nice, some wierd, etc.



Q. Client side authority? WTF?

A. Nearly all authority got changed to server side in v0.6, but in v0.56 it's all client side.
   The downside is that it's open to hackers, the upside is that lag will not affect player movement.

   To fix this is a big change. You'd need to change projectile simulation to server side and then detect collisions
   on the server and tell clients if they got hit, died, etc.

   One of the reasons for choosing the code license was so that if someone kept the authority client side, they could
   just change the protocol around and not have to release the code. This way it's still hard for hackers to wreck
   the game.

   Security through obscurity isn't the way to go, but people may want to choose that path.



Q. What things need to be worked on?

A. This is a list on the LieroX forums, but here is a brief list of fixes that need to be done
 
   * Reduce client updates sent over network to fix lag issue
   * Fix up AI code. AI is stupid and some of the code may cause crashes
   * Crashes



Q. What are some areas that could use improvements and new things added?

A. The gamescript section could be better. Lots of variables could be added to weapons & projectiles
   to allow for more features and functionality.
  
   A new level system is needed. One that has support for objects, like spawn points, flags, etc for extra game modes

   New game modes. Like CTF (needs level change above)

   Smarter AI

   Make AI server side, so AI players can be in network games

   New front end GUI

   New in-game menu system

   Dedicated server

   Optimize projectile system. Processing all the projectiles is the main bottleneck in performance.